doc/language/rst/decl_storage.rst, before:

Storage Specifiers
==================

Both global and local variables can have ``static`` or ``threadlocal`` storage specifiers. ``static`` means that the memory for variable is allocated at the program start and it stays there until the program terminates. ``threadlocal`` on the other hand, means that variable is allocated from the thread local storage -- each thread in program has its own copy of such variable. To avoid unnecessary performance penalties during thread start, two limitations are imposed on ``threadlocal`` variables. The first limitation is: thread variables cannot have initializers; the second -- thread variables cannot be aggregate (e.g. class, struct, array etc).

Now, what if you **do** need an aggregate thead variable and/or a thread variable which needs to be initilized? The answer is simple -- use pointers:

.. code-block:: none

	threadlocal MyClass* threadClass;

	// ...

	if (!threadClass)
		threadClass = new MyClass (10, 20, 30);

There is one more storage class, which actually cannot be explicitly expressed with storage specifier -- ``local`` storage. The actual memory for local storage can come from **stack** or from **GC-heap**, but the most important thing about local storage is this: every time intruction pointer goes through a variable declaration, this will be a **new** copy of the local variable.

If storage specifier is omitted, then global variables get assigned ``static`` storage class and local variables -- ``local`` storage class.

Member fields of classes, structs and unions can have both ``static`` and ``threadlocal`` storage specifiers -- the meaning of these are identical to what we have just discussed. Member fields can also have ``mutable`` storage specifier, which means that this member field can be modified using ``const`` pointer to the parent class/struct/union -- just like in C/C++.

Now let's talk about functions. Global functions always have ``static`` storage class. Member functions, on the other hand, can have the following storage specifiers:

* ``static``
* ``virtual``
* ``abstract``
* ``override``

``static`` in respect to member functions mean that this function does not accept implict ``this`` argument. Therefore, static functions cannot access any non-static member fileds. ``virtual``, ``abstract`` and ``override`` specifiers allow programmer to create virtual functions -- i.e. the functions which can be overriden in derived classes. Note that neither structs nor unions are not allowed to have virtual functions, only **classes** do.

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/decl_storage.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Storage Specifiers
==================

Both global and local variables can have ``static`` or ``threadlocal`` storage specifiers. ``static`` means that the memory for variable is allocated at the program start and it stays there until the program terminates. ``threadlocal`` on the other hand, means that variable is allocated from the thread local storage -- each thread in program has its own copy of such variable. To avoid unnecessary performance penalties during thread start, two limitations are imposed on ``threadlocal`` variables. The first limitation is: thread variables cannot have initializers; the second -- thread variables cannot be aggregate (e.g. class, struct, array etc).

Now, what if you **do** need an aggregate thead variable and/or a thread variable which needs to be initilized? The answer is simple -- use pointers:

.. code-block:: none

	threadlocal MyClass* threadClass;

	// ...

	if (!threadClass)
		threadClass = new MyClass (10, 20, 30);

There is one more storage class, which actually cannot be explicitly expressed with storage specifier -- ``local`` storage. The actual memory for local storage can come from **stack** or from **GC-heap**, but the most important thing about local storage is this: every time intruction pointer goes through a variable declaration, this will be a **new** copy of the local variable.

If storage specifier is omitted, then global variables get assigned ``static`` storage class and local variables -- ``local`` storage class.

Member fields of classes, structs and unions can have both ``static`` and ``threadlocal`` storage specifiers -- the meaning of these are identical to what we have just discussed. Member fields can also have ``mutable`` storage specifier, which means that this member field can be modified using ``const`` pointer to the parent class/struct/union -- just like in C/C++.

Now let's talk about functions. Global functions always have ``static`` storage class. Member functions, on the other hand, can have the following storage specifiers:

* ``static``
* ``virtual``
* ``abstract``
* ``override``

``static`` in respect to member functions mean that this function does not accept implict ``this`` argument. Therefore, static functions cannot access any non-static member fileds. ``virtual``, ``abstract`` and ``override`` specifiers allow programmer to create virtual functions -- i.e. the functions which can be overriden in derived classes. Note that neither structs nor unions are not allowed to have virtual functions, only **classes** do.
