doc/language/rst/exceptions.rst, before:

Exception Handling
==================

Jancy exceptions handling model applies a layer of syntactic sugar over good old C-style error code checking. As a result, it is extremely transparent and easy to support from the host C/C++ application.

A function marked by the ``errorcode`` modifier will have its return value interpreted as an error code. Intuitive defaults are assumed: ``false`` for bools, ``-1`` for integers integers and ``null`` for pointers.

.. code-block:: none

	bool errorcode foo (int a)
	{
	    printf ("foo (%d)\n", a);
	    return a > 0;
	}

If return values match, the error code is automatically propagated:

.. code-block:: none

	int errorcode foo (int a);

	int errorcode bar (int a)
	{
	    // ...

	    baz (a);

	    // ...
	}

The ``try`` operator shields an expression from **throwing**:

.. code-block:: none

	int result = try baz (-5);

The ``try`` block shields a parent scope from **throwing** even if this parent scope has no ``catch``:

.. code-block:: none

	foo ()
	{
	    // ...

	    try
	    {
	        baz (20);
	        baz (-1);
	        baz (21); // never get here
	    }

	    // ...
	}

``catch`` and ``finally`` can be within any scope:

.. code-block:: none

	int errorcode bar (int a)
	{
	    // ...

	catch:
	    printf ("bar.catch\n");
	    return -5;

	finally:
	    printf ("bar.finally\n");
	}

When calling a function, the developer can use either an error code check or exception semantics depending on what's more appropriate or convenient in each particular case.

.. code-block:: none

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    int result = try bar ();
	    if (result < 0)
	    {
	        // handle error
	    }
	}

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/exceptions.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Exception Handling
==================

Jancy exceptions handling model applies a layer of syntactic sugar over good old C-style error code checking. As a result, it is extremely transparent and easy to support from the host C/C++ application.

A function marked by the ``errorcode`` modifier will have its return value interpreted as an error code. Intuitive defaults are assumed: ``false`` for bools, ``-1`` for integers integers and ``null`` for pointers.

.. code-block:: none

	bool errorcode foo (int a)
	{
	    printf ("foo (%d)\n", a);
	    return a > 0;
	}

If return values match, the error code is automatically propagated:

.. code-block:: none

	int errorcode foo (int a);

	int errorcode bar (int a)
	{
	    // ...

	    baz (a);

	    // ...
	}

The ``try`` operator shields an expression from **throwing**:

.. code-block:: none

	int result = try baz (-5);

The ``try`` block shields a parent scope from **throwing** even if this parent scope has no ``catch``:

.. code-block:: none

	foo ()
	{
	    // ...

	    try
	    {
	        baz (20);
	        baz (-1);
	        baz (21); // never get here
	    }

	    // ...
	}

``catch`` and ``finally`` can be within any scope:

.. code-block:: none

	int errorcode bar (int a)
	{
	    // ...

	catch:
	    printf ("bar.catch\n");
	    return -5;

	finally:
	    printf ("bar.finally\n");
	}

When calling a function, the developer can use either an error code check or exception semantics depending on what's more appropriate or convenient in each particular case.

.. code-block:: none

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    int result = try bar ();
	    if (result < 0)
	    {
	        // handle error
	    }
	}
