doc/language/rst/intro.rst, before:

Introduction
============

Abstract
--------

Jancy is a **scripting programming language** with **LLVM** back-end. Jancy offers a lot of convenient features for low-level IO (input-output) and UI (user-interface) programming which are not found in mainstream languages (and sometimes, nowhere else). This includes safe pointer arithmetics, high level of source-level and ABI compatibility with C, reactive programming, built-in generator of incremental lexers/scanners and a lot more.

Motivation
----------

Why create yet another programming language? Like, there isn't enough of them already?

I have asked myself these questions hundreds of times, over and over again. I can name dozens of possible arguments against creating a new programming language. I understand all the difficulties a language creator is doomed to face before he can gather any meaningful number of users of the new language. And I still believe that creation of Jancy was justified. The truth is, Jancy was not created just to fix the infamous fatal flaw of other languages (aka **they didn't write it**). Of course, the passion to invent was a significant driving force, but there was **practival** reasoning besides that.

During development of a product called IO Ninja (a universal all-in-one low-level IO debugger) we were looking for a scripting language with the support for **safe pointers** and **safe pointer arithmetics**. After not finding one, we basically had a simple choice: either we settle for some existing scripting language without safe pointer arithmetics (say, embedded Python) or create a new scripting language -- **tailor-suited** for this task. Create it both for ourselves, and for other developers who could be in need for a scripting language really good at **handling binary data**. Needless to say, we had chosen the later option -- otherwise, you would not be reading this manual.

Of course, besides featuring safe pointers and safe pointer arithmetics, Jancy offers a long list of other useful but rarely found facilities. So let's outline the distinguishing features of Jancy below. And for those of you wondering **what's in a name**, Jancy is an acronym: [in-between] Java-and-C.

Design Principles
-----------------

* Object-oriented scripting language for IO and UI programming with C-family syntax
* ABI (application-binary-interface) compatibility with C
* Automatic memory management via accurate GC (garbage collection)
* LLVM (Low Level Virtual Machine) as a back-end

Key Features
------------

* Safe pointers and pointer arithmetic
* Unprecedented for scripting languages source-level compatibility with C
* Built-in Reactive Programming support
* Built-in regexp-based generator of incremental lexers/scanners
* Deterministic resource release
* Error handling model which allows both throw-catch semantics and error code checks (with the same function!)

Other Notable Features
----------------------

* Properties (the most comprehensive implementation thereof)
* Multicasts and events (including weak events, which do not require to unsubscribe)
* Multiple inheritance
* Const-correctness
* Thread local storage
* Weak pointers (do not retain objects)
* Partial application for functions and properties
* Scheduled function pointers
* Bitflag enums
* Perl-style formatting
* Hexadimal, binary and multi-line literals

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/intro.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Introduction
============

Abstract
--------

Jancy is a **scripting programming language** with **LLVM** back-end. Jancy offers a lot of convenient features for low-level IO (input-output) and UI (user-interface) programming which are not found in mainstream languages (and sometimes, nowhere else). This includes safe pointer arithmetics, high level of source-level and ABI compatibility with C, reactive programming, built-in generator of incremental lexers/scanners and a lot more.

Motivation
----------

Why create yet another programming language? Like, there isn't enough of them already?

I have asked myself these questions hundreds of times, over and over again. I can name dozens of possible arguments against creating a new programming language. I understand all the difficulties a language creator is doomed to face before he can gather any meaningful number of users of the new language. And I still believe that creation of Jancy was justified. The truth is, Jancy was not created just to fix the infamous fatal flaw of other languages (aka **they didn't write it**). Of course, the passion to invent was a significant driving force, but there was **practival** reasoning besides that.

During development of a product called IO Ninja (a universal all-in-one low-level IO debugger) we were looking for a scripting language with the support for **safe pointers** and **safe pointer arithmetics**. After not finding one, we basically had a simple choice: either we settle for some existing scripting language without safe pointer arithmetics (say, embedded Python) or create a new scripting language -- **tailor-suited** for this task. Create it both for ourselves, and for other developers who could be in need for a scripting language really good at **handling binary data**. Needless to say, we had chosen the later option -- otherwise, you would not be reading this manual.

Of course, besides featuring safe pointers and safe pointer arithmetics, Jancy offers a long list of other useful but rarely found facilities. So let's outline the distinguishing features of Jancy below. And for those of you wondering **what's in a name**, Jancy is an acronym: [in-between] Java-and-C.

Design Principles
-----------------

* Object-oriented scripting language for IO and UI programming with C-family syntax
* ABI (application-binary-interface) compatibility with C
* Automatic memory management via accurate GC (garbage collection)
* LLVM (Low Level Virtual Machine) as a back-end

Key Features
------------

* Safe pointers and pointer arithmetic
* Unprecedented for scripting languages source-level compatibility with C
* Built-in Reactive Programming support
* Built-in regexp-based generator of incremental lexers/scanners
* Deterministic resource release
* Error handling model which allows both throw-catch semantics and error code checks (with the same function!)

Other Notable Features
----------------------

* Properties (the most comprehensive implementation thereof)
* Multicasts and events (including weak events, which do not require to unsubscribe)
* Multiple inheritance
* Const-correctness
* Thread local storage
* Weak pointers (do not retain objects)
* Partial application for functions and properties
* Scheduled function pointers
* Bitflag enums
* Perl-style formatting
* Hexadimal, binary and multi-line literals
