doc/language/rst/prop_bindable.rst, before:

Bindable Properties
===================

Jancy supports bindable properties which automatically notify subscribers when they change. Bindable properties play crucial role in the reactive programming.

Simple bindable property declaration syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	int autoget bindable property g_simpleProp;

	g_simpleProp.set (int x)
	{
	    if (x == m_value)
	        return;

	    m_value = x;
	    m_onChanged (); // name of compiler-generated event is 'm_onChanged'
	}

	onPropChanged ()
	{
	    // ...
	}

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    bindingof (g_simpleProp) += onPropChanged;
	    g_simpleProp = 100; // onPropChanged will get called
	    g_simpleProp = 100; // onPropChanged will NOT get called

	    // ...
	}

Similar property declared using full syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	property g_prop
	{
	    autoget int m_x; // 'autoget' field implicitly makes property 'autoget'
	    bindable event m_e (); //'bindable' event implicitly makes property 'bindable'

	    set (int x)
	    {
	        m_x = x;
	        m_e ();
	    }
	}

Bindable Data
-------------

Jancy offers fully compiler-generated properties: getter, setter, back-up field and on-change event are all generated by the Jancy compiler. These degenerate properties are designed to track data changes: they can be used as variables or fields that automatically notify subscribers when they change.

.. code-block:: none

	int bindable g_data;

	onDataChanged ()
	{
	    // ...
	}

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    bindingof (g_data) += onDataChanged;
	    g_data = 100; // onDataChanged will get called
	    g_data = 100; // onDataChanged will NOT get called

	    // ...
	}

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/prop_bindable.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Bindable Properties
===================

Jancy supports bindable properties which automatically notify subscribers when they change. Bindable properties play crucial role in the reactive programming.

Simple bindable property declaration syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	int autoget bindable property g_simpleProp;

	g_simpleProp.set (int x)
	{
	    if (x == m_value)
	        return;

	    m_value = x;
	    m_onChanged (); // name of compiler-generated event is 'm_onChanged'
	}

	onPropChanged ()
	{
	    // ...
	}

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    bindingof (g_simpleProp) += onPropChanged;
	    g_simpleProp = 100; // onPropChanged will get called
	    g_simpleProp = 100; // onPropChanged will NOT get called

	    // ...
	}

Similar property declared using full syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	property g_prop
	{
	    autoget int m_x; // 'autoget' field implicitly makes property 'autoget'
	    bindable event m_e (); //'bindable' event implicitly makes property 'bindable'

	    set (int x)
	    {
	        m_x = x;
	        m_e ();
	    }
	}

Bindable Data
-------------

Jancy offers fully compiler-generated properties: getter, setter, back-up field and on-change event are all generated by the Jancy compiler. These degenerate properties are designed to track data changes: they can be used as variables or fields that automatically notify subscribers when they change.

.. code-block:: none

	int bindable g_data;

	onDataChanged ()
	{
	    // ...
	}

	int main ()
	{
	    // ...

	    bindingof (g_data) += onDataChanged;
	    g_data = 100; // onDataChanged will get called
	    g_data = 100; // onDataChanged will NOT get called

	    // ...
	}
