doc/language/rst/prop_indexed.rst, before:

Indexed Properties
==================

Jancy also supports **indexed** properties, which are properties with array semantics. Accessors for such properties accept additional index arguments, but unlike a real array index, a property index doesn't have to be of the integer type, nor does it mean **index** exclusively -- it is up to the developer how to use it.

Simple indexed property declaration syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	int g_x [2];

	int indexed property g_simpleProp (unsigned i);

	// here the index argument is really used as the array index

	int g_simpleProp.get (unsigned i)
	{
	    return g_x [i];
	}

	g_simpleProp.set (
	    unsigned i,
	    int x
	    )
	{
	    g_x [i] = x;
	}

A similar property declared using full syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	property g_prop
	{
	    int m_x [2] [2];

	    // more than one index argument could be used

	    int get (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j
	        )
	    {
	        return m_x [i] [j];
	    }

	    set (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j,
	        int x
	        )
	    {
	        m_x [i] [j] = x;
	    }

	    // setters of indexed property can be overloaded

	    set (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j,
	        double x
	        )
	    {
	        m_x [i] [j] = (int) x;
	    }
	}

Accessing indexed properties looks like accessing arrays

.. code-block:: none

	int indexed property g_prop (
	    unsigned i,
	    unsigned j
	    );

	foo ()
	{
	    int value = g_prop [10] [20];

	    // ...

	    g_prop [30] [40] = 100;

	    // ...
	}

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/prop_indexed.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Indexed Properties
==================

Jancy also supports **indexed** properties, which are properties with array semantics. Accessors for such properties accept additional index arguments, but unlike a real array index, a property index doesn't have to be of the integer type, nor does it mean **index** exclusively -- it is up to the developer how to use it.

Simple indexed property declaration syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	int g_x [2];

	int indexed property g_simpleProp (unsigned i);

	// here the index argument is really used as the array index

	int g_simpleProp.get (unsigned i)
	{
	    return g_x [i];
	}

	g_simpleProp.set (
	    unsigned i,
	    int x
	    )
	{
	    g_x [i] = x;
	}

A similar property declared using full syntax:

.. code-block:: none

	property g_prop
	{
	    int m_x [2] [2];

	    // more than one index argument could be used

	    int get (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j
	        )
	    {
	        return m_x [i] [j];
	    }

	    set (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j,
	        int x
	        )
	    {
	        m_x [i] [j] = x;
	    }

	    // setters of indexed property can be overloaded

	    set (
	        unsigned i,
	        unsigned j,
	        double x
	        )
	    {
	        m_x [i] [j] = (int) x;
	    }
	}

Accessing indexed properties looks like accessing arrays

.. code-block:: none

	int indexed property g_prop (
	    unsigned i,
	    unsigned j
	    );

	foo ()
	{
	    int value = g_prop [10] [20];

	    // ...

	    g_prop [30] [40] = 100;

	    // ...
	}
