doc/language/rst/type_primitive.rst, before:

Primitive Types
===============

System of primitive types in Jancy is a lot like the one in C/C++ with one exception: there is native support for integers with reversed byte-order (aka **bigendians**).

Bigendians are widely used throughout most network protocol stacks and everyone who was ever involved in network programming knows two things: number one, it kind of clutters the programs to constantly reverse byte order manually with all these **ntohs/htons/ntohl/htonl** calls. Even more importantly, number two -- it's **sooo** easy to forget to reverse byte order, thus getting a program which compiles just fine but has a logical bug in it! Since bigendians are so abundant in networking, and Jancy is intended for low-level IO programmers, bigendians got native support in Jancy.

Below is a list of all primitive types in Jancy.

* ``void``
* ``bool``
* ``char`` (``int8_t``)
* ``unsigned char`` (``uint8_t``, ``uchar_t``, ``byte_t``)
* ``short`` (``int16_t``)
* ``unsigned short`` (``uint16_t``, ``ushort_t``, ``word_t``)
* ``int`` (``int32_t``)
* ``unsigned int`` (``uint32_t``, ``uint_t``, ``dword_t``)
* ``long`` (``int64_t``)
* ``unsigned long`` (``uint64_t``, ``ulong_t``, ``qword_t``)
* ``bigendian short``
* ``bigendian unsigned short``
* ``bigendian int``
* ``bigendian unsigned int``
* ``bigendian long``
* ``bigendian unsigned long``
* ``intptr`` (aliases to ``int32_t`` or ``int64_t`` depending on platform)
* ``unsigned intptr`` (aliases to ``uint32_t`` or ``uint64_t`` depending on platform)
* ``float``
* ``double``

Commit message:

[jancy][axl] added license headers to rst & dox files

doc/language/rst/type_primitive.rst, after:

.. .............................................................................
..
..  This file is part of the Jancy toolkit.
..
..  Jancy is distributed under the MIT license.
..  For details see accompanying license.txt file,
..  the public copy of which is also available at:
..  http://tibbo.com/downloads/archive/jancy/license.txt
..
.. .............................................................................

Primitive Types
===============

System of primitive types in Jancy is a lot like the one in C/C++ with one exception: there is native support for integers with reversed byte-order (aka **bigendians**).

Bigendians are widely used throughout most network protocol stacks and everyone who was ever involved in network programming knows two things: number one, it kind of clutters the programs to constantly reverse byte order manually with all these **ntohs/htons/ntohl/htonl** calls. Even more importantly, number two -- it's **sooo** easy to forget to reverse byte order, thus getting a program which compiles just fine but has a logical bug in it! Since bigendians are so abundant in networking, and Jancy is intended for low-level IO programmers, bigendians got native support in Jancy.

Below is a list of all primitive types in Jancy.

* ``void``
* ``bool``
* ``char`` (``int8_t``)
* ``unsigned char`` (``uint8_t``, ``uchar_t``, ``byte_t``)
* ``short`` (``int16_t``)
* ``unsigned short`` (``uint16_t``, ``ushort_t``, ``word_t``)
* ``int`` (``int32_t``)
* ``unsigned int`` (``uint32_t``, ``uint_t``, ``dword_t``)
* ``long`` (``int64_t``)
* ``unsigned long`` (``uint64_t``, ``ulong_t``, ``qword_t``)
* ``bigendian short``
* ``bigendian unsigned short``
* ``bigendian int``
* ``bigendian unsigned int``
* ``bigendian long``
* ``bigendian unsigned long``
* ``intptr`` (aliases to ``int32_t`` or ``int64_t`` depending on platform)
* ``unsigned intptr`` (aliases to ``uint32_t`` or ``uint64_t`` depending on platform)
* ``float``
* ``double``
